BUSINESS
The Company must successfully manage frequent introductions and transitions of products and services in order to remain competitive and stimulate customer demand. This requires timely and successful development, market acceptance, and effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels. The Company relies on outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia for component and product manufacturing and logistical services, and transportation and logistics management. Changes or additions to the supply chain require considerable time and resources and involve significant risks and uncertainties. The Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks due to single-source outsourcing partners, and industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. Global or regional economic conditions can also affect the Company's ability to obtain components.

RISK FACTORS

The Company is a global business with the majority of its net sales coming from outside the U.S. It faces intense competition from companies with established service offerings, those offering content for free, and illegitimate means to obtain digital content and applications. The Company must continually introduce new products and services, manage frequent transitions, and obtain components from single or limited sources. It relies on outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia for manufacturing and logistics, and is exposed to supply and pricing risks, as well as quality and design defects. It produces and distributes digital content and products, such as its devices, operating systems, and applications, through the App Store, and retains a commission from sales of applications and digital services or goods within an application. The Company is subject to a variety of laws, regulations, and other obligations regarding data protection, environmental, social, and governance considerations, legal proceedings, and antitrust investigations. It is also exposed to information technology system failures and network disruptions, malicious attacks, and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to its systems. The Company's success and profitability are subject to product pricing pressures, increased competition, supply shortages, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, credit risk, changes in tax rates, and stock price volatility.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS


PROPERTIES
The Company is headquartered in Cupertino, California and as of September 24, 2022, it owns or leases facilities and land for corporate functions, R&D, data centers, retail and other purposes in the U.S. and abroad. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment are in good condition and suitable for its business.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Epic Games, Inc. filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws and California’s unfair competition law. The Company filed a counterclaim for breach of contract and the Northern California District Court ruled in favor of the Company with respect to nine out of the ten counts and issued an injunction. Epic appealed the decision and the Company filed a cross-appeal and was granted a stay pending the appeal. The Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2022 that did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition or operating results. The outcome of litigation is uncertain and if one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected.

MINE SAFETY


MARKET FOR REGISTRANT COMMON EQUITY


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION

The Company had a successful fiscal year in 2022, with total net sales increasing 8% or $28.5 billion compared to 2021. This was driven primarily by higher net sales of iPhone, Services and Mac, despite the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. During 2022, the Company announced several new product, service and software offerings, including updated MacBook Pro and MacBook Air models, updated iPhone SE and iPad Air with 5G technology, and Apple Pay Later. The Company also increased its Program authorization from $315 billion to $405 billion and raised its quarterly dividend from $0.22 to $0.23 per share.

Net sales by category for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: Products net sales increased due to a different product mix and higher volume, while Services net sales increased due to higher net sales from advertising, cloud services and the App Store. Net sales by reportable segment for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: Americas net sales increased due to higher net sales of iPhone, Services and Mac; Europe net sales increased due to higher net sales of iPhone and Services; Greater China net sales increased due to higher net sales of iPhone and Services; Japan net sales decreased due to the weakness of the yen relative to the U.S. dollar; and Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased due to higher net sales of iPhone, Mac and Services.

Gross margin and gross margin percentage for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: Products gross margin increased due to a different product mix and higher volume, while Services gross margin increased due to higher Services net sales. Operating expenses for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: R&D expense increased due to increases in headcount-related expenses and engineering program costs, while selling, general and administrative expense increased due to increases in headcount-related expenses, advertising and professional services. Other income/(expense), net decreased due to higher realized losses on debt securities, unfavorable fair value adjustments on equity securities and higher interest expense.

The Company had a balance of cash, cash equivalents and unrestricted marketable securities of $156.4 billion as of September 24, 2022, and had outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $111.8 billion, with $11.1 billion payable within 12 months. The Company also had $10.0 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding, all of which was payable within 12 months, and had fixed lease payment obligations of $15.3 billion, with $2.0 billion payable within 12 months. The Company had manufacturing purchase obligations of $71.1 billion, with $68.4 billion payable within 12 months, and had other purchase obligations of $17.8 billion, with $6.8 billion payable within 12 months. The balance of the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was $22.0 billion, with $5.3 billion expected to be paid within 12 months. The Company's quarterly cash dividend was $0.23 per share, and the Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual basis.

MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES

The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions, interest rate swaps, and underlying foreign currency and interest rate exposures to manage its financial risk. Changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, as well as costs associated with hedging and interest paid on the Company’s debt. The Company typically invests in highly rated securities to minimize the potential risk of principal loss and has entered into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on its outstanding term debt. A 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a $4.0 billion and $4.1 billion incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio as of September 24, 2022 and September 25, 2021, respectively. The Company is a net receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar and may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to protect against foreign exchange risks. The Company estimates with 95% confidence, a maximum one-day loss in fair value of $1.0 billion as of September 24, 2022, compared to a maximum one-day loss in fair value of $550 million as of September 25, 2021.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Apple Inc. is a company that sells iPhone, Mac, iPad, Services and other products. It has five reportable segments: the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. It has considerable trade receivables with third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, resellers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. It may use derivative instruments to partially offset its business exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk. It is subject to taxation and files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and many state and foreign jurisdictions. It had one customer that represented 10% or more of total trade receivables, and its cellular network carriers accounted for 44% and 42% of total trade receivables as of September 24, 2022 and September 25, 2021, respectively. It had €12.7 billion in foreign tax credit carryforwards in Ireland and €2.5 billion in California R&D credit carryforwards. It had €13.1 billion, plus interest of €1.2 billion, in recovery amount for the State Aid Decision. It has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including corporate, data center, manufacturing and retail space. It had $98.8 billion and $125.3 billion in fair value of its Notes as of September 24, 2022 and September 25, 2021, respectively. It recognized $2.8 billion, $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion of interest expense on its term debt for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During 2022, it repurchased 569 million shares of its common stock for $90.2 billion under a share repurchase program. It has entered into $5.2 billion of Repos during 2020, all of which had been settled as of September 26, 2020. It has outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities. It has entered into certain off–balance sheet commitments that require the future purchase of goods or services. It is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and that have not been fully resolved. The U.S. and China were the only countries that accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net sales in 2022, 2021 and 2020. The Company’s segment operating income for 2022, 2021 and 2020 was $87.3 billion, $77.9 billion and $64.7 billion, respectively. The Company’s total unrecognized compensation cost related to outstanding RSUs and stock options was $16.7 billion, which the Company expects to recognize over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. Apple Inc. has a total gross unrecognized tax benefit of $16.8 billion, of which $8.0 billion would impact the company's effective tax rate. The Company's audit of the financial statements resulted in an unqualified opinion.

ACCOUNTING DISAGREEMENTS


CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
The Company's management has conducted an evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, and concluded that both were effective as of September 24, 2022. The Company's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management has also conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria set forth in the 2013 Internal Control - Integrated Framework. The Company's independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, has issued an audit report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2022 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS


MANAGEMENT

Apple Inc. reported an 8% increase in total net sales for 2022 compared to 2021, driven primarily by higher net sales of iPhone, Services and Mac. The Company announced several new product, service and software offerings during the year, including updated MacBook Pro and MacBook Air models, updated iPhone SE and iPad Air with 5G technology, and Apple Pay Later. Products gross margin increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due to a different product mix and higher product volume, partially offset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Services gross margin increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due to higher Services net sales, partially offset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Operating expenses for 2022 increased year-over-year due to increases in headcount-related expenses and engineering program costs. Other income/(expense), net decreased during 2022 compared to 2021 due to higher realized losses on debt securities, unfavorable fair value adjustments on equity securities and higher interest expense, partially offset by higher foreign exchange gains. The Company's effective tax rate for 2022 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily to a lower effective tax rate on foreign earnings, tax benefits from share-based compensation and the impact of the U.S. federal R&D credit. As of September 24, 2022, the Company had outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $111.8 billion, with $11.1 billion payable within 12 months. The Company also had $10.0 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding, all of which was payable within 12 months. The Company had manufacturing purchase obligations of $71.1 billion, with $68.4 billion payable within 12 months. The Company had other purchase obligations of $17.8 billion, with $6.8 billion payable within 12 months. The balance of the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was $22.0 billion, with $5.3 billion expected to be paid within 12 months. The Company's quarterly cash dividend was $0.23 per share and the Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual basis.

COMPENSATION

The 2023 Proxy Statement will include all the necessary information for this item, which will be referenced in this document.

PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS

The 2023 Proxy Statement will include all the necessary information for this item, which will be referenced in this document.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The 2023 Proxy Statement will include all the necessary information for this item, which will be referenced in this document.

ACCOUNTING FEES


EXHIBITS


FORM SUMMARY


